OK here we are back where we left off last time in the previous lecture we went ahead and showed you
the corner heris detection algorithm and we mark the corners on both a flat chess board and a real image
of a chessboard.
Now we're going to do is use the sheet to Masie algorithm and that one came from the good features to
track paper and what's kind of funny is an open C.V the name of the function is actually good features
to track.
So they just use that whole title.
I went ahead and reloaded all the images since last time we drew on the images.
Now I'm going to reload them.
So I have real chess board flat chess board.
And then they're greyscale versions.
Well we're going to do is actually called the good features the track function.
We're going to take corners is equal to CB2 and just start typing out.
And we should be able to tab autocomplete for good features to track.
So that's the name of the function.
And then we're going to pass in the greyscale version.
So in our case it's gray flat chests.
We'll start at the flat chessboard one and the next parameter we provide is the maximum number of corners
we want.
So this is the maximum number of corners to return.
That's actually really convenient because we can decide hey I only want 10 corners return from this
image and it's going to choose the 10 best corners it seems.
So based on the quality level parameter that we describe then we're going to go ahead and do that so
let's pass and just five corners right now.
Then the next parameter is a quality level parameter.
So the way this works is the parameter value is multiplied by the best corner quality measure which
if you look into the mathematics of it is the minimal eigenvalue or essentially the Harris function
response.
Don't worry too much if you didn't end up reading the papers and are just concerned or some good default
values some good default values are zero point zero or one.
And then the next parameter if you take a look at shift tab is going to be beyond the quality level
the minimum distance.
In that case another good parameter by default is 10.
And then we can kind of play around with that.
OK.
So we have our default parameters the one that you're probably most concerned with is the second one.
How many corners detect if you do not want limits on the maximum number of corners.
You could just provide a negative number and it's going to return back all the corners.
It thinks it found the right now.
I want to show you the results of this poll just say the text five corners using the good features of
track paper that we're going to do is we're actually going to draw on little circles where it found
the corners.
The downside to using the good features the track even though it's a little more convenient to use because
of it's kind of easier to understand parameters.
The downside is it doesn't automatically mark the corners like the corner Harris algorithm did.
So what we will have to do is actually flatten out the array and draw little circles on it.
So let me show you how to do that.
First we're going to do is if we take a look at corners right now there are floating point values and
we need them to be integers.
So you'll say corner's is equal to p i n t 0 and then passing corners and that will automatically make
everything into an integer that will later on allow us to actually draw circles on this.
So let's actually do that now.
We will say for I in corners we're going to say is X come a y is equal to I the Raval or Revelle.
And that's essentially a kind of flattening out that particular array.
And then we're going to draw a circle on that.
So is a circle and we're going to draw onto the flat chessboard.
X Y and then we'll just provide some parameters here.
We'll say three and then the color can be read.
So 255 0 0 and then negative 1 we'll just have it filled in for Thicknesse.
So go ahead and run that and then let's see the results on the flat chessboard image.
So when we run this now I get to see those five corners at detected.
So now is trying actually trying to find way more corners are going to change this 5 to be something
like 64 and rerun this and you can see it's affecting all the possible corners and it should have less
than 64 here but it returned back.
All the best corners.
It thought that it found OK.
Now it's actually try run this on the real image and see how it performs.
We're essentially going to do the same thing.
I'm going to copy a lot of this code.
So we're going to start off of corners and then sort of gray flat chests.
We're going to see gray real chess.
And in this case let's go ahead and find more in the sixty four corners.
We'll find some corners off of the pieces as well.
So we'll say something like 80 and we'll keep the same default values for quality level.
Go ahead and run those.
And in order to mark the corners we'll be doing the exact same thing as last time setting them as integers.
And then copying and pasting this for a loop that actually draws a little circles for us.
So copy that paste it in here and then let's go ahead and show the result we'll say guilty and show
am real chess.
And like I say I drew it on flat chest.
Let's run this again and draw onto real chess.
There we go.
And there you have it.
So these were the corners at the tech that you can see.
Notice now that it actually did detect some of the major grids on the actual chess board itself.
So that's probably a good indication they would begin to need increasing this to maybe detect some more
corners.
So now we asked for 100.
You'll notice now asked to detect some more corners along that board.
However as you ask for more and more corners it's probably going to be in detecting more and more on
the actual pieces themselves.
OK.
So that's how you can use the sheet to maasi algorithm from the good features the track paper.
It's really quite simple you just say good features to track and then you pass in the image that you
want to find the corners you pass and the maximum value of corners.
And then use other parameters which you can default to 0.01 and 10 and adjust as you see necessary.
Then if you actually want to draw circles onto where you found the corners just convert it to integers
and then for I in corners you go ahead and flatten that out to get the actual coordinates of the corners
themselves and then draw little circles on them.
And notice I draw it back onto the real chessboard not the gray one.
And then we have a real chessboard with little circles wherever we found quarters.
OK.
Thanks everyone.
And we'll see you at the next lecture where we begin to discuss edge detection.